LINKS:
> https://www.altexsoft.com/blog/airline-reservation-systems-passenger-service-systems/
> https://www.altexsoft.com/blog/ndc-technology-for-airlines/


DEFINITIONS:
> PSS: Passenger Service System
> ARS: Airline Reservation System
> DCS: Departure Control System
> CRS: Computer (Central) Reservation System
> GDS: Global Distribution Systems
> PNR: Passenger Name Record
> ICS: Inventory Control System
> TPF: Transaction Processing Facility
> RMS: Revenue Management System


PSS OVERVIEW:
> RMS
> DCS
> ARS
> ICS
> Retail Platform
> Third-party API (NDC offer and order)


MAIN PSS MODULES:


Departure Control System (DCS):
- Processes Check-ins
- Controlling Baggage
- Generating boarding passes and baggage tags
- Sharing data with security services
- Generating Load Sheets

Airline Reservation System (ARS):
- Booking
- Managing Reservations
- Scheduling
- Generating PNRs
- Ticketing

Inventory Control System (ICS):
- Controlling seat availability
- Managing Fare Groups

The eCommerce platform that allows flyers to buy a ticket or search flights, will have direct
access to the ARS. Furthermore, Third party distributors will need direct access to an API which will be
integrated with the ARS.

A Revenue Management System (RMS) will need to be created to monitor expenses for financial sides of an Airline Industry,
this module will have direct access to the ICS.

DCS and ICS are integrated with ARS but do not have direct access to each other


ADDITIONAL PSS MODULES:


Revenue Management System:
Similar to hotels, airlines will need to maximise their revenue. A system must be created, with analytical data
of pricing tickets. Data should be comparable to the time until the flight, if it is a rebooking and previous travels.
We first get the calculated price for the departure, destination, time, distance, airplane etc. Then we adjust the price
with the extra data to potentially increase revenue.

It will also include forecasting demand utilizing historical data and other inputs like fluctuations in customer
behavior, market trends, and competitors’ strategies and recommending booking limits to maximize the expected
flight revenue.

Retailing Platform:
This is a system allowing for passengers to search for flights, review membership information, airtime rewards system
and accept payments. It should accept many payment options from different types of debit cards to using points and also
cryptocurrency. There should be a catalog dedicated to airline products. Another catalog should be included for car
retails, attraction tickets depending on the country/destination and more.

The system can easily be improved through an AI-fueled tool that personalises offers, loyalty programs through
collected data.

New Distribution Capability (NDC):
The eCommerce platform will allow users to buy a ticket, however, when searching, a fare must be calculated. We must
also include the data to increase revenue. We need a full offer and order management system through a NDC.

A NDC has two main modules for an indirect flight distribution model. The Airline and the content aggregators. To
operate these two modules and for them to interact with the customer, we need a NDC API.

So, Airline. As discussed above, there is the PSS. We will then need an offer creation within the Airline itself.
We also need a order management to accept orders from the customers from third-parties.

Then we have the Content Aggregators. This system uses the data collected to alter the prices to personalise the offers
to increase the revenue or reward the flyer.

The system will then pass on to the agents' system (the third-parties access to the api), if the offer is accepted,
it will then return to the order management system which updates the PSS accordingly. Whether it is a cancel, new
flight, updated flight, etc.


DEPARTURE CONTROL (DC):


This system aids passengers on their journey. I would like to set up a system where the user can log in to the
application and use a "track and trace" system to monitor luggage, airline times, when to expect their flight, landing,
etc. This will all be accessible the day before the flight itself.

There will be a compensation management tool, using traveler profiles and data about the customer, the software
will calculate the correct repayments for each customer. So when a flight is delayed, it keeps some passengers happier.

There will also be a flight management component to control and optimise load distribution within the airplane itself.
This allows the airline to monitor weight distribution, keep fuel costs low  (more weight = more fuel = more cost).

The ticketing component covers all ticket management functions: issuing electronic and paper tickets, ticket changes,
and generating EMDs from ancillary sales.


RETAILING DETAILS:


Revenue streams: Cargo, Fare, Ancillaries.
Cost streams: Fuel, Labor, other operating costs.
Net Profit: Revenue streams - Cost streams.


DATABASE:
> Airplanes
ID, NAME, TYPE, AGE, MAX_PASSENGER, MAX_WEIGHT
> Airports
ID, NAME, ACCESS?
> Customers
ID, FORENAME(s), SURNAME, AGE, PHONE NO., EMAIL, PASSWORD, ...
> Flights
ID, FLIGHT_ID, DEPARTURE, ARRIVAL, TIME_TO_DEST, FLIGHT_PATH, PASSENGERS, ...
> ...


SYSTEM CONTROL:


Processing Check Ins:
Desc.: Where a flyer will hand over a boarding pass, details to board the plane.
1. Check boarding pass, correct plane? Correct flight? Allowed?
2. Check details, e.g. passport?
3. Confirm flyer is on board the flight.

Controlling Baggage:
Desc.: Monitor baggage entering the plane, send data to departure control (DC).
1.1. Check weight of luggage, add weight if necessary.
1.2. Generate baggage tag. Add label to baggage.
2. Send to loading bag.
3. When luggage is getting loaded on board, scan baggage to ensure loading process.
4. Left behind baggage, ensure its found or reported to the user, their luggage location is unknown atm.

Generating boarding passes and baggage tags:
Desc.: In the name
1. Upon request generation, create a pass or tag using the creation system.
2. Assign the id of the pass or tag to the passenger group.
3. Attach to bag, then process the luggage into the loading bay.

Sharing data with security services:
Desc.:
1. Inform airport about newly loaded luggage onto plane.
2. Suspicious luggage? Inform security.

